The rules outlined below are extracted from Dr. Harald Krebs' 2-voice
counterpoint rules at:
http://finearts.uvic.ca/music/programs_undergrad/theory/Counterpoint%20online.pdf

Rules with a - in front of them have not been implemented yet.
Fourth Species has not been implemented yet.

First Species:
	1 voice counterpoint

	Necessary:
		Counterpoint moves with same rhythm as cantus-firmus (note for note)

		parallel motion verboten:
			unless interval is (3rd or 6th or 10th)
			AND there are no more than 3 consecutive statements of one interval

		parallel perfect intervals (1, 5, 8, 12) are always verboten
			(subset of previous rule, but we usually call it something else)

		high point of melodic curve should not coincide.

		no voice crossing wrt current note (voice crossing)
		no voice crossing wrt previous note (overlapping)

		only permissable horizontal motions:
			m2, M2, m3, M3, P4, P5, m6, M6, P8

		only permissable vertical intervals:
			m3, M3, P4, P5, m6, M6, P8, m10, M10, P11, P12
			EXCEPT: P1 is permissable on first and last notes.

		pairs of (local min, local max) and (local max, local min) must have
			intervallic relationship that fits in permissible vertical intervals
			'indirect horizontal dissonance'

- 		don't immediately repeat a note
- 			EXCEPT: you can actually do this once. it's supposed to be tied.

- 		don't immediately repeat a melodic segment (or a transposition thereof)

		immediately after a leap of (P5, m6, M6, P8), must move by step (m2, M2)
			in opposite direction

		do not leave vocal range.

		direct motion - do not move to P5 or P8 with similar motion
			ie with both voices moving down, or both voices moving up

		lower voice must start with tonic

		upper voice must start with tonic or 5th

		upper voice must end with the "degree 7, degree 8" pattern.

-		if in a minor key, upper voice must end with "#7, 8"

		may not use notes that are outside of the key
-			EXCEPT: degree 7 at end of upper voice in minor key
-			        degree 6 in minor key if not doing so would result in horizontal interval of aug2

-		may not play #6 along side natural 6 or #7 against natural 7

		

	Desirable:
		contrary motion
		step when cantus firmus leaps
		leap when cantus firmus steps
		don't often exceed interval of a 10th
		use more steps (m2, M2) than leaps
		change direction frequently
		build up to a high point, then come back down
		avoid hovering within a small span (like a 3rd or 4th)
		use more (m3, M3, m6, M6) than (P5, P8)


test cases:
	melody that with directions
		-1 0 0 -1 and
		 1 0 0  1
	make sure that plateaus don't confuse the maxima / minima functions

problems encountered:
	representing multiple hierarchies with same objects without destroying mingus framework
	representing minor keys within the mingus framework






Second Species:
	one voice must be whole notes (this is the cantus firmus)

	other voices should be all half-notes:
		except last note (must be whole note)
		second last note (may be a whole note)
		except first note (may be a half-rest)

	no repeated notes allowed.

	parallel 5ths/8ves on adjacent down beats are also not allowed

	leaps greater than a 5th may only go from strong-to-weak beats.
		(ie, must be within the same bar)

	unison on weak beat is okay

	dissonant intervals may now occur
		only on weak beat
		only approached by step
		only left by step

	indirect horizontal dissonance now not a problem between maxima and minima

	indirect horizontal dissonance now a problem between adjacent downbeats



Fourth Species:
	one voice must be whole notes (this is the cantus firmus)

	other voices should be all half-notes:
		except the last note (must be a whole note)
		except the first note (must be half-note rest)

	all half-notes starting on strong beats must be ties (repetitions)
		of the previous note
		(except twice. you can un-tie two strong-beat half notes... just not directly after eachother)

	dissonances are okay on downbeats
		if the downbeat is tied from a consonant interval before it
		and the dissonance is resolved downward by step on the next note
		and the next interval is consonant
			(ie. can't have two dissonances in a row)

	4th-5th suspensions and 7th-8ve suspensions are not kosher in lower voice.

	we now look at repeated suspensions as well as just repeated intervals
		(strong, weak) pairs of (7, 6) (4, 3) and (2, 3) can be used in a consecutively
			just not more than 3 of one type in a row!
		(strong, weak) pairs of (2-1) suspensions can't be used consecutively
			they sound like parallel octaves/unisons

	parallel octaves on consecutive strong-beats are not okay
		unless the interval between them is consonant

	parallel octaves on consecutive weak-beats are not okay
		unless the interval between them is consonant

	high voice (if not cantus firmus) must end with intervals (7, 6, 1)
	low voice (if not cantus firmus) must end with intervals (2, 3, 1)
	cantus firmus must end with scale degrees (2, 1) ?

